Questions: 

1. You patient, Pete, is a high school baseball pitcher who has come to see you because he's lost the heat on his fast ball.  Upon examination you discover that Pete has weakness in his shoulder; specifically, he demonstrates weakness in external rotation and abduction. In addition, Pete is experiencing tingling and numbness on the lateral surface of his arm and proximal forearm.  The sensory loss demonstrates a dermatomal pattern.  Where is the lesion?

Answer: C5 Root

2. A patient comes in to see you and complains that she can't feel the skin in the 'crease in the inside of her elbow' or on the end of her forearm by her thumb.  The sensory loss seems to be in the pattern of the dermatome in that region.  When you perform a motor function test, she is unable to flex her elbow and also has trouble extending and abducting her wrist. Where is the lesion?

Answer: C6 Root 

3. Sally the piano player comes in and complains that she has been having trouble practicing.  She reports that she has numbness and tingling in her pointer and middle fingers and she's having trouble extending her wrist. The sensory loss is contained to the fingers and her palm.  Where is the lesion?

Answer: C7 Root

4. Peggy, your patient, comes in and complains that her pinky finger is numb and tingly.  During your interview you discover that her other fingers have normal sensation and function, however, the sensory loss extends up the medial side of her forearm and you believe represents the dermatome in that area.  A motor exam shows weak flexion of her fingers and wrist. Where is the lesion?

Answer: C8 Root

5. Teddy, the world class thumb wrestler, comes to see you because he has lost his edge.  Upon examination, Teddy has no sensory deficits, but has reduced motor function in his thumb.  He also has trouble abducting his fingers.  Where is the lesion?

Answer: T1 Root

6. Debbie was cooking dinner in her kitchen when she slipped on some grease and fell backwards. In the midst of the fall, she stabbed herself in the back of her armpit with a knife.  She is now unable to abduct her arm and she has lost sensation in the skin in the upper lateral arm.  Where is the lesion?

Answer: Axillary Nerve

7. Jimmy comes in to see you because his right arm is feeling a bit funny.  He describes a loss of sensation, which doesn't seem dermatomal, in the crease of his elbow and the thumb side of his forearm.  He said his pointer and middle finger also feel tingly and numb.  Upon motor examination, Jimmy has trouble flexing his elbow and pronating his forearm.  He also has trouble with flexion and abduction of his wrist. Where is the lesion?

Answer: Lateral Cord

8. Pauly comes to see you after participating in a bar fight.  During the fight, his opponent pulled a knife and stabbed him in the bicep.  Now, Pauly is reporting a sensory loss in the crease of his elbow and thumb side of his forearm.  He is also unable to flex his elbow.  Where is the lesion?

Answer: Musculocutaneous Nerve

9. You patient reports numbness and tingling in the skin on top of her shoulder.  She has lost the ability to abduct shoulder as well as the ability to extend or flex the elbow.  Finally, she is unable to extend her wrist and fingers.  Where is the lesion?

Answer: Posterior Cord

10. You patient comes to you complaining of numbness and tingling in his 4 and 5 digits and medial arm and forearm.  He is having trouble flexion his wrist and fingers as well as abducting his fingers.  Where is the lesion?

Answer: Inferior Trunk

11. Jack, the BMX biker has come in to see you today because he is having problems with his arm.  A few months ago, he fractured his humerus in a biking accident.  He recently recovered from this injury and got the cast removed, however, he is having other issues now.  While, the bone healed up fine, he is now having trouble extending his wrist and fingers.  He also has non-dermatomal sensory loss on the posterior side of his arm.  Where is the lesion?

Answer: Radial Nerve

12. Karen was competing in a karate tournament and sustained an injury when attempting to karate chop a board in half.  The board splintered and punctured the medial side of her forearm.  Karen now has sensory loss in the medial side of her hand and weakness in her 4th and 5th digits.  Where is the lesion?

Answer: Ulnar Nerve
